This document provides step-by-step guides for contributing to the project using AI-assisted coding tools. Even if you prefer to implement changes manually, AI will be needed to perform code reviews of your work.


# Workflow for AI-assisted coding

Note: some of the steps of the workflow are suggestions, meaning that you might use other models or IDEs. However, the deliverables at the end are required, because they serve as quality control checks that everything works as expected.

## IDE and other tools

* As IDE, I suggest Antigravity in this case, because it is basically free, and you can use Opus 4.5 for free (which is usually very expensive but sometimes necessary for more complex things when other models fail).

* I also use Google AI Studio and Gemini Deep Research.

## Deep Research (optional, needed for complex features that require expertise information)

* If it's a complex new feature that requires expertise information (like how to implement a particular effects), I will use Gemini Deep Research to gather the information that there is out there (eg. how TC control systems in cars use certain formulas to determine when the rear is stepping out).

* I will then export the report to Google docs, and from Google docs (having enabled markdown) I will use copy as markdown of the whole document and paste it into a new file in the project, so that AI coding agents can read it.

## Implementation plan
* After I have the report from the deep research, I will produce an implementation plan for the feature I want to implement, as a separate markdown file. To create the file, I will either:
   * Ask Opus 4.5 or Gemini 3 Pro to create it, based on the deep research report and a description of what I want to implement
   * Paste the whole codebase into Google AI Studio, and ask Gemini 3 Pro to create it. I then use "copy as markdown" and paste the plan into a new .md file in the project.
       * To create a markdown file that contains the whole codebase of the project (code, documents, and tests), I run the script that is here: "scripts\create_context.py". This updates the file docs\dev_docs\FULL_PROJECT_CONTEXT.md, which then I can paste into Google AI studio.

       * I often use Google AI studio in this way, not just to create implementation file, but also to investigate bugs (ask what might be wrong with the code), or ask any kind of questions and suggestions. This is also free with generous rate limits.

* When I ask to create an implementation plan, I always ask to also: 
    * include tests (the test description and some code snippets) that comprehensively cover the new features and changes,
    * include instruction to update the documentation in the project.

* I review the implementation plan to make sure it is aligned with what I want and that that there are no issues that require further investigation or refinement.

## Implementation

Use a slightly less capable model in Antigravity (Gemini 3 flash or Sonnet 4.5) and ask it to implement the plan, and to increase the app version number and add an entry to the changelog.

* Once the model finishes the implementation, I quickly read / skim through it (to make sure no apparent gross issues are there).
* I also make sure that the app and test compile, and that all tests pass (see the following section about this). 

## Make sure the app and tests compile and pass

* There is a build_commands.txt file in the root directory, and you need only the first 2 commands listed there: the first is to build the app and tests, and the second to run the tests.

* The first time you try to compile the app you need the additional commands (from the same file, build_commands.txt) to download Imgui in the vendor directory.

## Code review

I open a new chat in Antigravity, and ask Sonnet 4.5 to do a code review of the changes, producing a markdown file with a detailed code review and recommended things to improve.

* Then I skim through the code review, and read in detail only the recommended improvements to the current changes. I usually ask Sonnet 4.5 in the same chat to implement most if not all of those recommendations.

* After all the recommended improvements are implemented, I make sure again that the app and test compile, and that all tests pass.

## Commit and release

Make sure the app version number is updated and there is a new entry in changelog.md file. 

Note that all markdown files produced in this process (eg. deep research, implementation plan, code review), must be included in the commit / merge request. This is to facilitate / speed up the review on my side before I can accept the merge request.

At this point the changes should be ready for commit and making a new release.

# Contributing manually written code

If you manually write code, you still need to ask AI to perform a code review of the changes.

You need to include in your commit / merge request a markdown file generated by AI with a detailed code review and recommended things to improve.

You basically need to follow all the previous steps described for AI-assisted coding, except that the "Implementation" part is done manually by you. This also means that your commit / merge request should include an implementation plan (in markdown format), and a deep research report (if advisable depending on the type of feature you are implementing).

If you write the implementation plan manually yourself, you must ask AI to review it and generate a review document as a markdown file.
This is to facilitate / speed up the review on my side before I can accept the merge request.


# Other use cases

## Investigating a bug

If I want to investigate a bug, or some issue that a user reported, and need suggestion on what might be causing it and how to fix it, I will do any of the following:

* **Ask Google AI Studio:** Paste the whole codebase into Google AI Studio (update and use docs\dev_docs\FULL_PROJECT_CONTEXT.md as described above), and ask Gemini 3 to investigate the bug. I then use "copy as markdown" and paste the plan into a new .md file in the project.
* **Ask in the IDE (Antigravity):** I will use one of the best models (Opus 4.5 or Gemini 3 Pro) to investigate the bug and create a markdown report about it. 

## Simple use case: add a FFB preset to the app

* In Antigravity, Cursor, or other IDE, paste the portion of the ini file with your preset settings in the AI chat, and ask to create a new preset.

* When the model is finished, double check the diff and the git changes in the IDE to make sure no other files or presets were changed.

* Compile the app and tests, run the tests and make sure they pass (see above).

* You don't need any of the more complex steps described above (deep research, implementation plan, code review).

# TODOs 

TODO: add a list of planned feature that contributors can choose from for things to implement.

TODO: Branching strategy: Should contributors create feature branches? What branch should they target for merge requests?
